README.md, before:

#IdleQueueWorker

**(WARNING! Still experimental library!)**

Simple async queue implementation for low priority background tasks, such as analytics sending, data collecting.

Queue processing implemented over [window.requestIdleCallback](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window/requestIdleCallback) (shim included) that provides task processing on the main event loop, without impacting latency-critical events.



## Installation

 1. ```npm install --save idle-queue-worker```
 2. Use with your favorite module bundler such (e.g. Webpack, Browserify, etc)



## Documentation
Module provides a few interfaces: ```ForEachable```, ```Mapable```, ```Foldable```.
If you want to create your own interface, use ```BaseQueueWorker``` and object composition concept.

For lot of cases you just need only two methods:


`forEach` → for  dequeued data processing

`enqueue` → for passing some data to the queue.



##API

**`BaseQueueWorker<T>(isReady?:() => boolean, timeout?:number, queue?:Array<T>)`**

Params ( aka *baseQueueWorkerArgs*):

 - `isReady` — call before each attempt of queue item processing. If result is falsy, then next new work will be sheduled.
 -  `timeout (given in ms)` — minimum time that must pass before calling the callback function.
 - ```queue``` — not recommended for use in real tasks. Only for testing usage.

Methods:
 
- ```.register(callback: (item:T) => any):void``` — callback function for queue processing.
- ```.enqueue(item:T):void``` — add item at the end of the queue.

Example:
```javascript
import { BaseQueueWorker } from 'idle-queue-worker/lib';

const worker = new BaseQueueWorker();

worker.register(x => x * x);
worker.enqueue(2);
```



**`ForEachable(...baseQueueWorkerArgs)<T>`**

Methods:

 - ```.forEach(callback: (item:T) => any):void``` — callback function applied for each dequeued element
 - ```.enqueue(item:T):void``` — proxy of baseQueueWorker method
 - ```.pipe(queue:AnotherQueue):AnotherQueue``` — enqueue result of map
   function to next queue

Example:
```javascript
import { ForEachable } from 'idle-queue-worker/lib';

const worker = new ForEachable();

worker.forEach(x => x * x);
```



**`Mapable(...baseQueueWorkerArgs)<T,R>`**

Methods:

- ```.map(callback: (item:T) => R):Self``` — a → b callback function
- ```.enqueue(item:T):void``` — proxy of baseQueueWorker method
- ```.pipe(queue:AnotherQueue):AnotherQueue``` — enqueue result of map function to next queue
- ```.take(count:number).Promise<Array<R>>``` — take first N processed items of queue
- ```.takeUntil(predicate:(item:R) => boolean):Promise<Array<R>>``` — collect data until predicate result is falsy, then resolve result

Example:
```javascript
import { Mapable } from 'idle-queue-worker/lib';

const worker = new Mapable();

worker
	.map(x => x * x)
	.take(10)
	.then(result => send(result));
```



**`Foldable(...baseQueueWorkerArgs)<T,R>`**

Methods:

- ```.enqueue(item:T):void``` — proxy of baseQueueWorker method
- ```.pipe(queue:AnotherQueue):AnotherQueue``` — enqueue result of folding to next queue
- ```.fold(callback:(accumulator:R, item:T) => R, initialValue:R):Self``` — same as Array.prototype.reduce function
- ```.foldUntil(count:number):Promise<R>``` — foldResult until predicate falsy

Example:

```javascript
import { Foldable } from 'idle-queue-worker/lib';

const worker = new Foldable();

worker
	.fold((sum, value) => sum * value, 1)
	.foldUntil(sum => sum > 10)
	.then(result => send(result));
```

**Piping**:

You can pass the results of one queue to next queue just call .pipe method of Mapable, Foldable instances. There is many  opportunities to determine your data flow with queues without pain.

Example:

```javascript
import { ForEachable, Mapable, Foldable } from 'idle-queue-worker/lib';

const mapableWorker = new Mapable();
const forEachableWorker = new ForEachable();
const foldableWorker = new Foldable();

foldableWorker
    .fold((result, element) => result + element, 0)
    .foldUntil(result => result > 10)

mapableWorker
    .map(e => e * 2)
    .pipe(foldableWorker)
    .pipe(forEachableWorker)
    .forEach(e => console.log(e));

mapableWorker
    .take(5)
    .then(result => console.log('DONE!'));
```



##TODO
 - `Filterable<T>`
 - Live examples
 - A lot of improvements!

Commit message:

eslint setup, abstract class, some fixes, readme changes

README.md, after:

#IdleQueueWorker

**(WARNING! Still experimental library!)**

Simple async queue implementation for low priority background tasks, such as analytics sending, data collecting.

Queue processing implemented over [window.requestIdleCallback](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window/requestIdleCallback) (shim included) that provides task processing on the main event loop, without impacting latency-critical events.

This module has no any external dependencies and some part  of code base already used in production, enjoy.



## Installation

 1. ```npm install --save idle-queue-worker```
 2. Use with your favorite module bundler such (e.g. Webpack, Browserify, etc)



## Documentation
Module provides a few interfaces: ```ForEachable```, ```Mapable```, ```Foldable```.
If you want to create your own interface, use ```QueueWorker``` and object composition concept.

For lot of cases you just need ```ForEachable``` interface and only two methods:


`forEach` → for  dequeued data processing

`enqueue` → for passing some data to the queue.



##API

**`QueueWorker<T>(isReady?:() => boolean, timeout?:number, queue?:Array<T>)`**

Params ( aka *queueWorkerArgs*):

 - `isReady` — call before each attempt of queue item processing. If result is falsy, then next new work will be sheduled.
 -  `timeout (given in ms)` — minimum time that must pass before calling the callback function.
 - ```queue``` — not recommended for use in real tasks. Only for testing usage.

Methods:
 
- ```.register(callback: (item:T) => any):void``` — callback function for queue processing.
- ```.enqueue(item:T):void``` — add item at the end of the queue.

Example:
```javascript
import { QueueWorker } from 'idle-queue-worker/lib';

const worker = new QueueWorker();

worker.register(x => x * x);
worker.enqueue(2);
```

**`Abstract(...queueWorkerArgs)<T,R>`**

Methods:
 - ```.enqueue(item:T):void``` — proxy of queueWorker method
 - ```.pipe(queue:AnotherQueue):AnotherQueue``` — enqueue result of callback function to next queue

You can't construct Abstact instance directly, use classes below.

**`ForEachable(...queueWorkerArgs)<T>`**

Methods:

 - ```.forEach(callback: (item:T) => any):void``` — callback function applied for each dequeued element

Example:
```javascript
import { ForEachable } from 'idle-queue-worker/lib';

const worker = new ForEachable();

worker.forEach(x => x * x);
```



**`Mapable(...queueWorkerArgs)<T,R>`**

Methods:

- ```.map(callback: (item:T) => R):Self``` — a → b callback function
- ```.take(count:number).Promise<Array<R>>``` — take first N processed items of queue
- ```.takeUntil(predicate:(item:R) => boolean):Promise<Array<R>>``` — collect data until predicate result is falsy, then resolve result

Example:
```javascript
import { Mapable } from 'idle-queue-worker/lib';

const worker = new Mapable();

worker
	.map(x => x * x)
	.take(10)
	.then(result => send(result));
```



**`Foldable(...queueWorkerArgs)<T,R>`**

Methods:

- ```.fold(callback:(accumulator:R, item:T) => R, initialValue:R):Self``` — same as Array.prototype.reduce function
- ```.foldUntil(count:number):Promise<R>``` — foldResult until predicate falsy

Example:

```javascript
import { Foldable } from 'idle-queue-worker/lib';

const worker = new Foldable();

worker
	.fold((sum, value) => sum * value, 1)
	.foldUntil(sum => sum > 10)
	.then(result => send(result));
```

**Piping**:

You can pass the results of one queue to next queue just call .pipe method of ```ForEachable```, ```Mapable```, ```Foldable``` instances. There is many  opportunities to determine your data flow with queues without pain.

Example:

```javascript
import { ForEachable, Mapable, Foldable } from 'idle-queue-worker/lib';

const mapableWorker = new Mapable();
const forEachableWorker = new ForEachable();
const foldableWorker = new Foldable();

foldableWorker
    .fold((result, element) => result + element, 0)
    .foldUntil(result => result > 10)

mapableWorker
    .map(e => e * 2)
    .pipe(foldableWorker)
    .pipe(forEachableWorker)
    .forEach(e => console.log(e));

mapableWorker
    .take(5)
    .then(result => console.log('DONE!'));
```



##TODO
 - Live examples
 - A lot of improvements!
